---
Date: 2023-10-09
---
# File Descriptors

- There are three special file descriptors provided to every program:
    - `0`: standard input - `STDIN_FILENO`
    - `1`: standard output - `STDOUT_FILENO`
    - `2`: standard error - `STDERR_FILENO`
    - Programs **always assume** that these FD numbers are for these descriptors.

# Crash Recovery

- To understand crash recovery, we need to understand all places where filesystem data is stored and maintained.
    - We know about most of the disk itself (e.g. Unix V6 layout)
    - We’ll learn about how free blocks on disk are tracked.
        - This factors into crash recovery (e.g. free blocks not in a consistent state).
    - We’ll learn about the block cache in memory that stores frequently-used blocks accessed from disk.

# Free Space Management

- Early Unix systems (like Unix v6) used a **linked list** of free blocks.
    - Initially sorted so files are allocated contiguously, but over time becomes scrambled.

## Bitmap

- Now, it’s more common to use **bitmaps**
    - Array of bits, one per block: 1 means block is free, 0 means in use
    - Takes up some space — e.g. 1TB capacity → $2^{28}$﻿ 4KB blocks → 32MB bitmap
    - During allocation, search bit map for block close to previous block in file
        - Want locality → data likely used next should be close by
- **Problem:** slow if disk is nearly full, and blocks can become very scattered.
    - Expensive to find free blocks on a mostly full disk
    - Poor locality → next data is not close by
- **Solution:** don’t let disk fill up by pretending disk has less capacity than it really has
    - Increase disk cost and slightly decrease the disk size, but better performance.

# Block Cache

- **Problem:** accessing disk blocks can be expensive, especially if we do it repeatedly for the same blocks.
- **Idea**: use part of the main memory to retain recently-accessed disk blocks.
    - A **cache** is a space to store and quickly access recently or frequently used data.
    - Frequently-referenced blocks (e.g. indirect blocks for large files) usually in block cache.

## LRU Cache

- **Challenge:** cache size is fixed and limited. We need a method to clear it out.
- _Least-recently-used replacement_ → if we need something not in the cache, we read it from the disk and then add it to the cache.
    - If there’s no space in the cache, we remove the least-recently-used element.
- Block cache allows us to **delay** operations until later
    - e.g. when modifying a single block many times, don’t write to disk every time; only write once later on.

# Crash Recovery

- How do we recover from crashes without **losing file data** or **corrupting the disk**?
- **Challenge \#1** – data loss
    - Crashes can happen at any time, and not all data might have been saved to disk.
    - E.g. if you saved a file but it hadn’t actually been written to disk yet.
- **Challenge \#2** - inconsistency:
    - Crashes could happen even in the middle of operations, and this could leave the disk in an inconsistent state.
    - E.g. if a modification affects multiple blocks, a crash could occur when some of the blocks have been written to disk but not the others.
    - E.g. adding block to file: suppose the inode was written to store block number, but block wasn’t marked in the filesystem as used (it’s still listed in the free list)
- Ideally, filesystem operations would be **atomic**, _meaning they happen in their entirety without interruption – they are never left in an incomplete state_.
    - This isn’t fully possible, since crashes can happen at any time.
- **Key challenge**: tradeoff between _crash recovery abilities_ and _filesystem performance_.

## Block Cache Recovery

- When the block in the cache is modified, we have two options for writing to the disk:
    - **Synchronous writes** - we immediately write to disk
        - Safer: less risk of data loss because it’s written as soon as possible.
        - Slow: program must wait to proceed until disk I/O completes
    - **Delayed writes** - wait a bit before writing to the disk
        - Wait in case there are more modifications to the block (Unix chose 30 seconds)
        - Fast and efficient: writes return immediately, eliminates disk I/Os in many cases
            - Many small writes take longer than one big write.
        - Dangerous: may lose more data after a system crash

# Approach \#1: Check on reboot (fsck)

- **Key idea:** don’t make any design changes to the filesystem structure to implement crash recovery.
    - Instead, write a program that runs on bootup to check the filesystem for consistency and repair any problems it can.
- Example: Unix **fsck** (”file system check”)
    - Checks whether there was a clean shutdown (if so, no work to do).
        - How do we know? Set flag on disk on clean shutdown, clear flag on reboot.
    - If bad shutdown, then scan disk contents, identify inconsistencies, repair them.
        - Scans metadata (inodes, indirect blocks, free list, directories)
    - Goals: restore consistency, minimize info loss

## Limitations

- **Time**: can’t restart system until fsck completes. Larger disks mean larger recovery time.
- Restores consistency but doesn’t prevent loss of information.
- Restores consistency but filesystem may still be unusable
    - E.g. a bunch of core system files moved to lost & found
- Security issues: a block could migrate from a password file to some other random file.

# Takeaways

- The free list tracks free blocks on disk and is commonly implemented using a bitmap.
- The block cache caches recently-accessed disk blocks.
- Crash recovery challenges include both data loss and inconsistency.
- **fsck** is one approach to crash recovery.