
# About
- Started a start-up in the 90s, acquired by AltaVista, the leading search engine at the time.
- Went to AOL after AltaVista, then did another startup in the healthcare space
- Then went to Yahoo, working as an engineer, then eventually became VP of Engineering for Yahoo mail and messenger.
- Moved to Facebook in 2011, led engineering for user growth and engagement.
- First VP of Engineering at AirBnB
	- Joined when there was around 40 people on the engineering theme, then left when it was about 1000 people.

# AirBnb
- When he first joined with the 40 engineers, they did not have anyone in charge of security.
	* There was only one engineer (Jeff Yip) who was interested in information security.
* About 8 months after he joined, he hired someone to lead infosec for the company.
	* It took 8 months because it was hard to attract good security engineers.
* During that interim period, they hired outside firms to do pentesting; external security audit.

## Breaches
* There luckily were not any significant breaches that required disclosure.
	* The threshold for disclosure is whether customer data was compromised or not.
* **E.g.** An attacker used a botnet to do a DDOS attack on one of AirBnB's DNS servers.
	* It turned out it was a DNS server that was not actually serving much traffic.
	* AirBnB did not even notice, only found out because the attacker told them.
	* The attacker wanted to ransom them, but AirBnB was like whatever lol

- They reached out to the infosec community, and found that this was not a targeted or sophisticated attack.
	- General consensus: best way to react to this is to ignore it, and the attacker will leave.

## Security teams
* Incident response team
* Security engineering team (SWE)
	* encrypting data at rest, data in motion
	* improving security in infrastructure
* Pen testing
	* Bug bounty team
	* Collaborate with product to build security into design
* Local "ambassadors" for security embedded in various teams
	* these people are part of the process from the beginning, getting security in early.
* IT team
	* reviews vendors to protect againstsupply chain attacks
* Security project management team

# Infosec community
* The infosec community is very collaborative, and that network is super important.
* **E.g.** there was never a time when they reached out to some expert in security that did not reply to help.

# Snowflake attack
* Snowflake is a company. They had been getting a lot of ransomware attacks, so they got a provider to protect them against it.
* The provider finds breaches by string matching the credentials against stuff on the dark web and leaks.
* However, they stored Snowflake's passwords in a plaintext file in order to do plaintext matching.
* An employee at the provider got hacked, and they got Snowflake's credentials.

# Facebook incident from AirBnB viewpoint
* Facebook was breached. A lot of customers used Facebook to log into AirBnB.
	* AirBnB did not know what the security impact on themselves would be, not sure what to do.
* Solution: Remove all of the OAUTH sessions for users who logged into AirBnB using Facebook.
	* They would lose revenue, but they can win back revenue; they can't win back customer trust.

# Incident response
* In the early days, there was not an actual incident response process at AirBnB.
	* When the site was experiencing issues, they would just get everyone together and try to fix it.
* Over the years, the process evolved quite a bit.
	* With every incident, they tweak the process to make it better.
* After discovering an incident:
	1. Prepare to work the incident, putting time upfront to prepare
		* assigning owners
		* roles and responsibilities
		* putting someone on point for communication with stakeholders
		* informing stakeholders, etc.
	2. Investigative work to find the root cause of the incident.
	3. Contain the incident; take actions such as
		* Invalidating tokens
		* Taking systems offline
		* Main goal is to shrink the blast radius of the problem
	4. Fix the problem, then bring systems back.
	5. Recover from the incident
		* Need to do it in a way that evidence is preserved.
	6. Postmortem
		* Look at how they can improve the incident response process.


# Trust and safety
* There is a lot of room for fraud on AirBnB.
	* Can be used for money laundering, getting money from stolen credit cards, and more.
* Account takeovers:
	* Phish a bunch of hosts.
	* Then modify the bank account that the money pays out to.
	* Then, they can use stolen credit cards to book the property, the money is deposited, and the attacker disappears.
	* The attacker can also just take money from the hosts booking, as long as the host does not notice.
* Fake listings:
	* People can just list fake houses, and the customer wouldn't know until they've already paid for the property and showed up.
* Parting detection:
	* People book AirBnBs for parties and trash the house.
	* Signals for party detection include:
		* Guest is in same city as the host
		* Booking is happening very soon (e.g. book for next day)
		* Guest is new to the platform, not much trust built.
		* The house being booked looks good for a party (e.g. pool, etc)

* AirBnB now requires government ID for guests.

# Careers
* Having a depth of understanding in information security is important
	* This is a very in-demand skillset

* Keep the growth of the company in mind.
	* You can do well at the company, but the company might not be doing well.
	* Businesses that in decline reduce the opportunities for learning.
