
* CTO and co-founder of Discord

# Scale of Discord
* At any point, there is over 30 million people using Discord
	* 10 to 15 terabits per second of traffic going through Discord
* There is over 40 million events per second going to clients.


* Originally, Discord came out of a game studio
	* Mission was to connect people through games
	* They used a lot of products to connect with others in games, but they ended up creating Discord since the others were bad

# Changes in security problems
* In terms of **security**:
	* The early value proposition to users was that Discord was secure
		* Won't leak IP address, immune to DDOS, etc.
		* From the beginning, they wanted to focus on security.
	
	* As they grew, teaching everyone the value of security was hard.
		* They had to automate systems as much as possible.
		* However, still can't predict zero-days and nation state actors.
	
	* Main focus was how to scale security as the company grew.

* In terms of **safety**:
	* Realized how large of an issue safety was when they realized Discord was being used to organize public violence, etc.
		* E.g. **Charlottesville:** Political rally that was organized on Discord. A person died because it was a violent rally.
	* The most mortem takeaway was that they were not investing enough in safety.



# Why was Discord successful?
* The first part was the voice channel paradigm.
	* Instead of calling peer-to-peer, there is channels; a space where people hang out.
* The second part was the security standpoint.
	* Other platforms such as Skype was insecure; it was vulnerable to DDOS attacks, etc.

# Incidents
* Discord has not had any massive information security incidents so far.

* When Web3 blew up in the pandemic, Discord was overloaded by spam and fraud 
	* **Web3 example:** The gaming industry is embracing Web3 development to enhance player experiences and ownership of in-game assets. Blockchain-based tokens and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) allow players to own and trade their virtual assets across different games and platforms.
	* They internally **classified spam as a virus**; systems automatically act on the content that it scans.

* In terms of moderation: 
	* At the end of the day, Discord is a communication platform.
		* They view communication as private.
	* Communities that are small (e.g. small friend groups) are completely private.
	* Servers that are public are scanned and moderated for hate speech, spam, and more.

# Trust
* During the Web3 boom, people created bots to get automated ways to get access to tokens.
	* This led to a significant increase in scams.

* To fight this, Discord created a product to be the middleman of these transactions.
	* Connected Discord to crypto wallets so that they can help users use crypto more safely.

* The core userbase of Discord was upset that they were supporting crypto.
	* Saw revenue from that core userbase decrease by a sizeable amount.
	* Ultimately ended up rolling it back, because the users effectively voted using their wallets.

# Revenue model
* Discord is a messaging platform. It is hard to monetize it.
* A large part of their revenue is through the Nitro subscription.
	* However, they've effectively hit the ceiling of what they can achieve with Nitro.

* They are now tapping into advertising to make money.
	* However, they are still aligning it with user desires.
	* **Discord Quest**: partner with game companies to make quests that users can do, which they can receive rewards from.

# Third-party products
* Discord has also become a platform for third-party products like **Midjourney**.
	* However, **Midjourney** can introduce threat vectors that are not in the control of Discord.


# Nation state actors
* Pentagon leaks on Discord
* Some of the spam and impersonation is done by Nation States, because they want to get access to crypto wallets.


# Career advice
* Learn about stuff, built stuff, try things out
* Your network matters a lot; meet new people and learn from them
* Don't be afraid of AI and embrace it in your workflow