---
Week: Week 4
---
# Introduction

- Derek Smith, been around security for a long time.
- Previously founded two security companies → acquired by Raytheon and F5.
- In the process of launching out of stealth with a company called Mimic.
    - Working on ransomware defense at scale for mature enterprises.
- Here to talk about what threat actors have been doing in the wild about ransomware.

# How do attacks work?

- Ransomware attackers almost never fight into enterprises on their own.
- **Usually, they buy access to a system**
    - The people who sell these (threat actors) are mostly based in Russia or Europe.
    - People can buy root access to a system
        - e.g. root access to some company was 1.5k
        - e.g. root access to a hotel chain was 4.5k
- Mimic scraped the dark web for interactions and messages.

# 1. Attackers evade EDR

- EDR stands for Endpoint Detection & Response → software agents that get pushed to every endpoint of an enterprise.
- **Once the attackers get access to the system, they need to evade the EDR.**
    - Getting around Cloud strike Falcon, Sentinel One, etc.
- The ransomware approaches to EDR defenses are:
    1. Turn the EDR off
    2. Disconnect the EDR from its data feed
    3. Hijack a legitimate process

## EDR disconnection from data feed

- Use unhooking → replace the `dll` for Windows that hooks system calls and passes them to an EDR with one that does not hook system calls.
    - This blinds EDRs and other controls that depend on Windows kernel hooking.
- Bypass AMSI

## Use specialized tools

- Buy tools on the open internet for very cheap (like $50) to shut down EDR
    - There are several dedicated control-bypass tools that are specific to EDR/XDR.

## Downloading drivers

- You can download vulnerable drivers for free from `loldrivers.com`.
    - This is kind of like a supply chain attack.
    - When a system tries to update its drivers, you can insert a malicious driver that is vulnerable, which can give attackers root access very easily.

# Mistakes

- Some employee mistakes are intentional → some organizations just bribe an insider to make a “mistake” in order to introduce a vulnerability or data leak.
    - Something like 70% of all computer intrusions involve an insider.
- Just recently in February, Ubiquiti routers were breached → the head of security at the company was the insider, he was bribed by a nation-state threat actor to allow a misconfiguration to remain unfixed.

# Attacks happen fast

- They tested a ransomware encryption attack on a virtual machine.
    - An encryption attack is one where they encrypt the entire filesystem and force them to pay ransom in order to decrypt.
    - From the first indication to having all of the key files encrypted and contaminated, it took 5 minutes.
- In comparison, a leading SOC from Cloudstrike takes 1 minute to find the bug, 10 minutes to understand it, and 1 hour to contain the bug.
    - SOC stands for Security Operations Center.
- **On critical systems, automated response requires extremely high confidence in detection accuracy.**

# Confidence signals

|   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|
||**Client**|**Departmental Server**|**Enterprise Server**|**Infrastructure Server**|
|**New File Type Uploaded**|Common|Uncommon|Rare|Extremely Rare|
|**New Software Installed**|Common|Common|Extremely Rare|Extremely Rare|
|**Program Crash**|||Extremely Rare|Extremely Rare|
|**Reboot**|||Extremely Rare|Extremely Rare|
|**Security Control Inactive**|||Extremely Rare|Extremely Rare|
|**Log Deletion**|||Extremely Rare|Extremely Rare|
|**Disconnection from Network**|||Extremely Rare|Extremely Rare|

- The more rare it is, the higher the confidence signal that there is an attack going on.

# Game Theory

- Defending against ransomware is all about game theory.
    - Everything is about time.
    - We want to cause the attacker to think he was successful, so that he then begins negotiating with us.
        - The purpose is to buy time to find out.
    - Carry on negotiations while IR figures out how they got in.

# What to do after attacked?

- After the initial attack is over, what should the company do?
- There was a ransomware attack to **Change Healthcare**, a subsidiary of United Healthcare
    - This company was responsible for prescriptions nationwide.
    - The attack locked them out of the system, preventing doctors from accessing it and prescriptions being given to people.
    - They decided to pay the ransom (22 million), but then the attackers did not give them access to the system and wants more ransom money.
        - So they still have a massive data breach, and they also lost all that money.

## Paying the ransom

- Ransomware is often paid using cryptocurrency.
- The payment often passes through a mixer, which dumps a ton of cryptocurrencies from many different users and then sends it back out.
    - This makes the cryptocurrency effectively untraceable.

# Early indicators

- All of this revolves around early detection of ransomware attacks.
- One way is to look at unique disk and file system activity.
    - We can track read operations to important information.
        - This can allow us to detect **takers → attacks that take info.**
    - We can also track write operations to key information.
        - The attacker might write to an important file and encrypt it, then extract the private key from the system and ask for ransom.
        - Tracking these allows us to detect **breakers → attacks that break the system.**

# Active Directory

- Microsoft's proprietary directory service. Active Directory stores data as objects. An object is a single element, such as a user, group, application or device such as a printer.
    - Important part of IT infrastructure. It can be used to manage devices, users, domains, and objects within a network. Organizations use Active Directory for its seamless **identity and access management** capabilities.
- A lot of companies rely on this for identity manage → it’s an issue because if something happens to it, they’re kind of out of luck (only option is to move to cloud).
- The fix is to:
    - Reestablish everyone’s identity in a new and clean environment, without reestablishing the attacker’s identity and giving them continued access to the system.

# Elections

- Threat actors for elections spend most of their time going after undecided voters in swing states.
- Usually, it’s foreign nation-states (mostly Russia) or a third party that tries to create misinformation that micro-targets undecided voters.
- **“Astroturfing”** is creating an impression that there is local support for this candidate or another candidate → convince local residents to follow the local support.
    - Practice of hiding the sponsors of a message or organization to make it appear as though it originates from, and is supported by, grassroots participants.
    - This is one of the key attacks from Russia since it significantly sways public opinion.

# Stock Price

- There should be greater repercussions and penalties for United and Change Healthcare due to their data breach.
    - They underinvested in their security, which led to this issue happening.
- As an example, some car companies made their cars less safe to reduce costs.
    - They calculated that damage from the lawsuits from the unsafe cars would be less than the gains from increased stock prices.