---
Week: Week 4
---
# Background

- Specialized training in cyber crimes in 1997, started prosecuting internet crimes.
- First federal prosecutor to do full time high-tech cases in cybersecurity
- Worked at eBay, then joined Facebook and became CSO there (7 years), then joined Uber in 2015 and built their security team (fired from Uber), then became CSO at Cloudflare.
    - Was on Obama’s security commission → helped administration on cyber policy stuff.
- Then became CEO of nonprofit after Cloudflare → bring used laptops to kids in Ukraine
    - Also run a security advising business, advising companies and startups on security
- Did talks at Black Hat and DEFCON about his Uber case.

# 9/11 attacks

- In the 9/11 attacks, they used email to book flight lessons, and internet to book plane tickets
    - Wake up call for govt about the power of internet to connect people

# Uber case

- Got a felony conviction because of this case.
- Was blamed for a security issue at Uber, resulting in being fired and felony.
- Joined Uber in April 2015, then launched Uber’s “responsible disclosure policy” in May
    - Will take any reports from researchers and promise to not sue them or report them to the government.
    - Wanted to have a good bug-bounty program and a good relationship with researchers.
- Had very strong bias with working with researchers.
- There was an incident in the fall of 2016. When incident happened, it did not seem like it was significant.
    - Received an email about a bug in Uber, so he forwarded the email to another person on his team so they could take care of it.
    - There was an AWS bucket (old backup) that was exposed to the internet.
    - The person who reported it wanted to get paid $100,000 for the bug bounty.
- There were a lot of people in Uber involved in the case, all of his actions were approved by the higherups and legal and PR.
    - They paid the person, and the person assured them that the data was deleted.
    - There were two people responsible for the attack, and they found them.
        - For the first person, they went and met and interviewed them, and were assured that the data was removed.
- Uber’s lawyers said that they were not going to report it.
- In the following spring, Uber’s CEO was forced to step down.
    - He served as co-CEO interim, then hired a new CEO who hired a new general counsel.
- The new CEO wanted to declare that the previous incident was a data breach.
    - He was supportive of this because it was rare to have a breach where data was not in the wild.
    - He then went on vacation for Thanksgiving. During that time, he was fired from Uber.
- They made him the scapegoat, fired for allegedly working with the previous CEO and covering up a major data breach in 2016 and paying hackers $100,000.

### FBI

- In 2020, the FBI filed an indictment and criminal complaint for the coverup at Uber.
    - A lot of the charges for fraud was dismissed.
- He went to trial in the fall of 2022. Charged for two things
    1. Obstruction of justice: because the FTC was doing an investigation of Uber, they said he had a duty to make sure the FTC knew about the incident. Currently pending case.
    2. Misprision of a felony: knew that a crime occurred, and helped keep law enforcement from knowing about it.
        1. They said when they paid the hackers and signed the NDA, this was him helping hide the crime.

### Hearing

- At the sentencing hearing, the Judge said a few things:
    1. I don’t understand why the CEO is not here. If there is someone that should be responsible, it should be the CEO.
    2. I’ve never seen the case before. The NDA was not part of a coverup, and that it was part of an investigation and the process. The team did a good job.
    3. The judge gave him probation and community service.
- The CEO did not get charged.
    - The CSO (Joe) was charged.
    - The two researcher/hackers were charged.

# Security

- The security at most companies is not enough, the government does not do enough, and security is still a big issue online.
    - Most companies don’t want regulation from the government because they slow down innovation for the company.
- Companies don’t focus on security because they don’t have to.
    - They spend the bare minimum on risk management, and the maximum on product and engineering to increase profits.
- Governments need to require companies to do more about security.
    - Biden administration: we need to put responsibility of security on the internet to corporations, those with the resources to address it.
- Corporations don’t want the government to be responsible for security for other companies, because they don’t want the government from looking at the data (privacy issues)
- The FTC has no authority over the internet.
    - But they’ve become the de-facto regulator of a lot of the internet, because the FTC is responsible for commerce.
    - FTC is responsible for deceptive trade practices.
        - If someone in marketing said “We are responsible for your security”, and there happens to be a data breach, the FTC is able to go after the company.
    - They can go after any company who makes statements that are misleading.

# GDPR

- This is an example of the government taking online security into their hands.
- It was a regionwide EU codification of a bunch of countries’ security laws.
    - Forces corporations to ensure security, show the government that their security is solid.
- E.g. one of the laws was that accounts that were deleted have to be fully wiped from the system as the terms and conditions say.
    - At Facebook, accounts being deleted would be gone over 90 days.

# CSO

- He moved to Uber from Facebook because he wanted to report directly to the CEO, and be responsible for all of the risk and fraud protections.
    - Under him, he had a person responsible for physical risk, fraud, telematics/safety, etc.
- Security is a technical position, but it’s also so focused on protecting people.
- CSO’s should know where every asset in the organization is.
    - They wouldn’t be able to secure anything if they don’t know where their assets are.

# Job advice

- Align passions with your day job → take the path and job that you love more.
- There is a lot of room in security for software engineers.
    - If you’re reviewing the code that someone else wrote for security, then you’re doing it wrong.
    - You should be part of the process of innovation, identifying the risks as you are building the product.
- Security teams often build their own tools → security orgs need software engineering tools.
    - `osquery` is an example of a security tool built by software engineers at the security team at Facebook.

# Product security

- Most programs nowadays are built up using a lot of open source components.
- Products should have a list of where the software comes from, and there should be mandatory testing.
- Essentially, two main things with product security.
    1. Transparency
    2. Testing