---
Week: Week 5
---
# About Me

- Founder and CEO of Roblox

# Trust and safety system

- First security system built at Roblox
    - Began with just moderating text and chat.
- Within a few weeks of having a few hundred users, bad stuff started happening.
    - Bullying, etc.
- Once people were able to create 3D things and building -> people would start building questionable things.
    - They had to also review all the things people were uploading and building.
    - Needed human moderators

# Hack 1: Open-client server

- Started with a very permissive architecture for Roblox
    - Some things would happen on the client and go to the server.
    - Some things would happen on the server and go to the clients.
- Anything put on the client would go to the server, and then spread to other clients.
    - Hackers tried to get offensive objects into the client so that it would go to the server and spread to others.
- Now, Roblox is mostly **server-trusted only.**

# Hack 2: Virtual Economy

- Real money was traded around.
- Someone was able to perform an SQL injection attack that unlocked part of the Roblox economy.
- Originally, there wasn’t any friction, allowing money to move and proliferate very quickly in the system.
    - An attack on the economy was hard to reverse because money moved too quickly to reclaim.
    - Had to fully shut down the economy in order to fix it -> Roblox ran for two days without anyone buying.
- Now, added some friction to the economy to prevent things from moving so quickly.

## Tickets

- There used to be two means of currency: Robux and Tickets.
- If you log in many many times (fake accounts), you can get many tickets.
    - People would then sell these tickets, heavily affecting the economy.
- Used CAPTCHA to prevent fake accounts (but CAPTCHAs can be solved by bots).
- Tried to fix the issue of tickets by preventing fake accounts.
    - Added more complex proof of work -> validate that the account was real, but same problem was occurring.
    - In the end, just removed Tickets altogether.

# Tricking users with incentives

- There were many sites that were like “Free Robux” in order to trick young users.
    - Most of the case, these sites were trojan horses that would trick the user into giving their username and password.
- Roblox has been working to harden the security to prevent these -> track account activity to ensure account security.
- Now, accounts with more than few Robux are heavily encouraged to use MFA.
    - Reduce the possibility of young people getting their account taken over.

# Chat Attacks

- There were also attacks where attackers would chat with young people to get them to share their browser cookies with the attacker through Roblox.

# 2FA Vulnerability

- Your phone number is very vulnerable -> six-digit authenticators are much safer.
- A hacker paid an AT&T customer service worker in South America to perform a SIM-swap on Dave’s phone, getting access to his phone number.
- Some Gmail accounts would allow phone recovery -> getting access to his phone would possibly allow them to take over his account.
- Always use a 2FA six-digit code instead of phone number, since your phone number can be taken over.

# Money Laundering

- The cash out of the system is about 30% of the cash into the system.
    - This produces a lot of friction that makes money laundering very difficult.
- Right now, money that goes out only goes out to creators on the platform
    - To pull money out, creators get a 1099, and it’s a lot of friction on that to prevent laundering.

# Social Engineering Attack

- Hackers go on LinkedIn and find the employees of Roblox.
- They then try to find the phone number of the employees.
- They’ll then text the employees saying “this is Roblox HR, your mom is in the hospital, we need insurance records”
    - Of 2,000 employees, maybe 5 or so will responds.
- They’ll ask them to access Google Drive or other cloud storage sources, and get access to documents that everyone at Roblox has access to.
    - Security was not fine-grained enough -> many documents were shared to everyone at Roblox instead of just the people involved.
- The attackers then downloaded all of the documents that they could access.
    - They then contact Roblox and wanted a ransom, or they would leak all the documents.
- Roblox kept asking the attackers for more time.
    - They were not planning to pay the ransom, since they were comfortable with sharing the documents.
        - In some cases, it was advantageous that the documents were shared.
    - However, since the documents had the address of executives, they would call 911 and send a SWAT team to the house to scare them.
    - This was easily prevented because they could just have a security guard that knows the police.

# Blind

- Forum that favors complete transparency where employees at different companies can make “anonymous” posts.
    - Some percentage of vocal people in the company.
- There was a change in Roblox HR policy stored in a confidential document.
    - It was shared to everyone at Roblox instead of the relevant people.
    - Someone on Roblox’s Blind shared the document by giving a link.
        - When Roblox employees on Blind click on that link, they would’ve had to log onto their Roblox account to access the document.
        - Roblox was able to find who clicked on the link by seeing who logged in, thereby seeing who was on Blind.
- Lesson: after you click on link with login activity, be very careful! Any company admin can see that.

# Recent social engineering attack

- Now, there are sensors for this — all systems shutdown for compromised employees within a minute.

# Future of AI

- **Deepfakes** are 2 to 3 years away (at least ones that are imperceptible from real).
    - Dave spoke to senators: Should lawyers ban technology to make it or ban making it?
    - In a few years, we can’t assume that a photograph is real.
    - Possible Solutions:
        - Watermarking the pictures -> issue is that people will get non-watermarked models illegally.
        - Cryptographic key on images -> hard to deploy globally.
        - Steganography -> embed codes in an image that people can’t see.
- **Voice** mimicking (possibly fake phone calls)
    - How do you know whether a phone call is actually from your bank or from an attacker?
    - No inbound phone call to you can be trusted, and caller IDs can be spoofed.
    - Possible Solution:
        - Generally, you should hang up and call back.
        - There might be secret codewords within families to authenticate this.

# Security at Roblox

- There are many different communications within Roblox.
    - Children talking in heavily moderated chat channels to speak with their friends.
    - 30 year olds playing poker with others, using encrypted channels that they don’t want Roblox to be able to see and moderate.
- End-to-end encryption might become very necessary for online communication.

# Ransomware

- Hackers go after Caesar’s Casino and shut down their whole system. Caesar’s decides to pay the $10 million ransom.
- Hackers go after MGM and shut down their whole system. MGM decides to not pay, and their system stays down for several days.
- Roblox does a no-blackmail and no-ransomware policy -> heightens awareness of employees at the company to try not to get hacked, since money can’t help them.

# Bad Actors

- Most difficult hack to prevent against if you are a medium to large company:
    - **Internal bad actors:** imagine one of the top engineers in the company, whose family was just kidnapped, is getting a private text that blackmails them to go into the system and database and do something to it.
        - In Roblox:
            - There are many things in the company that require two people to unlock.
            - There are many things that people can read but not write or copy.