---
Week: Week 5
---
# About Me

- CISO (chief information security officer) at QuantumScape
- LP/Advisor to VC funds, angel investor
- Co-Founder and Co-Director of Stanford Advanced Cybersecurity Program.

# What’s going on in the world?

- Over 10,000 data breaches in the last 20 years.
    - More than one breach per calendar day on average.
- 2003, California passed law that says covered parties (e.g. companies) must disclose any breach of the security of personal data to any resident of California

# Root Causes of Breach

- Managerial root causes
    - Failure to prioritize security
    - Failure to invest in security
    - Failure to successfully execute on security initiatives
- Technical root causes
    - Unencrypted data
    - Phishing & Malware (including account takeover)
    - Third-party compromise or abuse (aka, supply chain security)
    - Software security (both 1st and 3rd party software)
    - Inadvertent employee errors / accidents (separate from phishing)
        - This includes social engineering attacks against employees.
- Data between 2003 - 2018 for breaches:
    - **Hacking or Malware** and **Unintended Disclosure** are the two biggest.
    - **Physical Loss** and **Portable Device** are the next two biggest.
        - If you add these up, they are even more than Hacking/Malware.
        - These can easily be prevented if we **encrypt the devices that contain sensitive data**.
- Data between 2018 - 2023:
    - Up until 2022, there were at most 8 zero-day attacks. In 2023, there were 110 zero-day attacks.

# Compliance and Security

- Many companies that get breached are often “compliant”
    - The lesson from this is that compliant does not mean secure.
- Companies need to prioritize compliance in order too o business, but being compliant does not guarantee security.
- **YubiKey:** Google deployed this to their employees as a hardware-based MFA and for 5 to 6 years after that, there were no account takeover attacks due to phishing.

# Colonial Oil Pipeline (2021)

- What got stolen?
    - Attacker stole VPN password from dark web and planted ransomware in system.
- What was impact?
    - Oil pipeline was shut down for a week; ransomware deemed to be a national security threat.
- How did it happen?
    - There was 2FA.
    - CO was not able to restore enough systems from backup.
- How could it be prevented?
    - Monitoring dark web for credential theft.
    - Implementing strong 2FA
- To end the attack, CO decided to pay the ransom.
    - The FBI was eventually able to get a large part of the ransom back -> bitcoin is not fully anonymous and untraceable.

## Defending against ransomware

- Offline and cloud-based backups -> secure against ransomware.
- Strong MFA via authenticator apps, hardware keys, or PassKeys.
- Strong anti-malware detection / endpoint protections.

## WannaCry

- Ransomware that was released and affected over 100k organizations.
    - Suspected to be created by the North Korean government.
- Encrypted the systems of hospitals and other core organizations internationally.
    - The goal was to just cause chaos -> even if you paid the ransom, they wouldn’t decrypt the data.

# Solarwinds Hack (2020)

- Discovered by Mandiant.
- A Russian nation-state group broke into Solarwinds, then broke into the pipeline into a product called Orion.
    - Very sophisticated hack, injected a backdoor into the build process of the the product.
    - This Orion product was used by hundreds of thousands of organizations, including several government agencies.
        - When this backdoor Orion product was updated, it got access to the agencies and was able to access hidden data.
- What got stolen?
    - Attack tools (FireEye), source code (MSFT), government emails (several agencies)
- What was the impact?
    - Ransomware became a national security thread.
    - Biden security threat -> any federal agency that buys software needs to ask all of their software providers for a full inventory of software used by government.
- How did it happen?
    - Third-party compromise -> supply chain attack
    - Compromise of IAM systems
- How could it have been prevented?
    - Securing software build pipeline.

# Capital One Breach (2019)

- Capital One was one of the most aggressive banks when it comes to cloud usage.
    - Partnered with Amazon and heavily used AWS.
- Had the largest cloud security breach of all time.
    - Ex-Amazon employee
- What got stolen?
    - 100 million US social security numbers, 1 million Canadian SINs.
- What was the impact?
    - $250k fine, 5 years in jail for hacker
    - The breach costs $100m to $150m

## How did the breach happen?

- Capital One had S3 Buckets with 100 million credit card applications.
    - The bucket was protected by an Access Control List that allowed Capital One’s WAF (web application firewall) to access the bucket.
- Capital One had a vulnerable EC2 VM instance.
    - This VM used a separate meta-data service to find data.
    - It had a Server-side request forgery vulnerability -> requests to the VM would be relayed to the service, which would then be relayed back to the requestor.
- The attacker made a request to the VM.
    - Asked for all of the security credentials that the process should have.
    - The VM relayed this to the meta-data service, and the meta-data service replied with the data belonging to Capital One bc Capital One’s VM was sending it.
        - **Confused Deputy:** metadata service was doing its job, thought the Capital One VM was requesting it, so it replied with that data -> tricked by another program (with fewer privileges or less rights) into misusing its authority on the system.
    - The VM relayed the `**-WAF-WebRole` credential to the attacker machine.
- When the attacker got the credential, it asked again for the secret access key and tokens with the credential, and the metadata service gave it.
    - It was then able to access the S3 bucket to get the data.

# Target Breach (2013)

- One of the first of the mega breaches.
- Breached due to a third party.
    - Attacker got access to Target’s heating and air conditioning contractor, which was then able to break into Target.

# Defenses For Breaches

- Encrypted data
    - Storage and application layer encryption, TLS, secure enclaves.
- Phishing and Malware
    - Security keys, MFA
- Third party compromise or abuse
    - Vetting, audits, security rates
- Software security
    - Pen testing

# Threats to AI Models

- Breaches for AI models include:
    - Hallucinations
        - Models are trained on data on internet, so some of the output is very confidently wrong because there are errors in its training data.
        - We need to minimize hallucinations, especially if we use AI for critical systems.
    - Prompt injection
    - Adversarial examples
    - Jailbreaks
        - Convince AI model to give up its training data

# Conclusion

- Prioritize and invest in security; invest in people, process, and technological countermeasures