---
Week: Week 6
---
# About Me

- CTO at Webflow
    - Webflow is like a visual version of Wordpress.
- Former: SVP of Engineering at Slack
- Former: CTO at Shopify
- Former: CTO at ServiceNow
- Former: EECS Professor at Berkeley, taught Networks

**Why do you find security relevant to SAAS these days, and why is it interesting?**

- There are three main things a SAAS business needs to do. In order of importance:
    1. You need to be available.
        - If the product is not up, it does not matter.
    2. You need to be secure.
        - If your product is up, but you leak user data, then that’s super bad.
    3. You need to be performant.
        - The product needs to be fast.
    4. You need to be economical.
        - The product needs to be able to turn a profit, low costs, etc.
- You should treat the customer’s data as if it were your own data.
    - This is making sure that your data is **secure**

**How do you think about prioritizing engineer work across the organization, and avoiding tech debt (especially in security)?**

- Security is usually not the most glamorous and important part of the job.
    - However, retrofitting a product for security is a lot harder than **building it with security in mind.**
        - Make sure that compliance checks and security is included early in the process.
- Priorities for engineers, in order:
    1. Fix customer issues fast.
    2. Make sure the issues don’t happen again by resolving the tech debt.
        - Are there any tasks generated from those prior issues that are part of tech debt?
    3. Innovate.
- Notice that innovation (building fun shit) is the lowest priority of the things mentioned.
    - Many engineers do (3) first, then (1), and completely forget about (2).
    - In reality, they should be spending the first few days of the work rectifying (1) and (2), then they can spend the rest of the time to innovate.
- Shift-left: conducting security testing sooner in the software and app development phase.
    - For Allen, when he joined companies, he had to have the teams shift-left to focus on security more.
- Key results for company:
    - Availability
    - Security
    - Performance

**Can you think of a time you had an “oh no I need to hand in my badge” moment?**

- This was at ServiceNow. He was called at 3am -> there was a Code Red.
    - There was a major attack that had data exfil.
        - All of the data for all of the customers was being exported to a site in Thailand.
    - They had an emergency button that transfers all the data and traffic from one data center to another center.
        - They had a **Hot** data center and a **Spare** data center. If one went down, they can quickly switch traffic to the other data center.
    - They had to spin up legal, PR, media relations, then investigation.
    - The attack ended up being a virus scanner that was being ran internally.
- This was at Slack. The night before the Slack IPO.
    - They got a call that an entire data warehouse was breached, and their customers was publicly available on the internet.
        - Luckily, people could not log into the data warehouse -> logs showed that there were no queries against the database.
            - People knew it was there, but they didn’t to know what it was so no one tried to attack it.
        - This was caused by a poorly configured AWS security.
            - As they were scaling up for an IPO, they set up a bigger data warehouse.
            - The warehouse was not set up correctly, so it was publicly available.
    - They had to make a decision if they were going to still IPO the next day.

# Security

- Security always comes down to humans understanding what they are doing and why they are doing it.
    - E.g. people taking their Github tokens and publishing it on a public repo.
- If you do your job right and you make your code secure, security has your back.
    - It makes sure that your product is highly available, secure, and performant.
- Security is a very relevant topic in the modern world.

## Testing Backups

- A lot of companies don’t test their backup sites. If something happens, and there is an issue on the backup site, then they’re screwed.

## LLMs

- When they were first released, the first few major questions were related to security.
    - How do we know the data we give to the LLM is secure?
- Areas of security in LLMs:
    - There are like 7400 LLM startups in the Bay Area.
    - There are companies that use LLMs to parse security logs to find security vulnerabilities faster.
    - Companies are producing droids: LLM bots that continuously penitent a product.
    - There are also bots that go through CVE and test those exploits.
- How do you anticipate the CS function changing as a result of LLMs?
    - LLMs just give us more power to be more productive.
        - They can help us “complete the code”
            - E.g. writing comments for the code, making it more accessible with ARIA tags, and more.

## Fraud

- At Shopify, there are a lot of things related to fraud that they had to verify and defend against.