---
Week: Week 6
---
**About Me**

- At Goldman Sachs, previously at Microsoft and Google.
    - Worked on the product team at Microsoft and Google, now security at Goldman.
- Was at Microsoft because he was writing a book.
    - Worked on Azure Active Directory and Kerberos.
    - Proposed a simple protocol for security -> that protocol became OAuth 2.

**Systems**

- When he started, it was hard to build anything that works.
    - Hard to build a system that holds up reliably at scale.
- The challenge is: How do we build apps and system according to defined controls and processes, so that the output of what we make is predictable?

**Security**

- Security is about **trust**.
    - You have clients and users putting trust in your service, and are you living up to it.
- Hard to have a trustworthy system unless you can build it reliably with the right controls and processes.

**Goldman**

- Wanted to build a commercial bank on the cloud (~2018).
    - This is how you move a trillion or two dollars a day, around the world.
    - Backbone of the economy.
- Goldman built these pipelines from scratch -> building products with modern tech in a highly regulated industry.
- High frequency trading:
    - Models reading context about the market and the rest of the world, and they go place trades on behalf of the firm or client.
        - i.e. a software that has access to the market and makes decisions faster than a human can.
    - If we wanted to change this model, what are appropriate controls around making this change?
        - Code review
        - Checkout process to see that its working as intended
        - Rigorous testing
        - Gentle rollout
        - Simulations (over historical data) to see its performance
        - Ironclad rollback (if its a mistake, want to be able to undo it quickly)
    - Regulators care about **stability** in the banking system.
        - They do not want any organization dumping chaos into the market (e.g. with a bad/runaway model).
- **Model Management + Change Controls** -> a discipline for managing trading models.
    - Before you can deploy a model, it has to go through a very strong gauntlet of controls.

**Startup**

- When you create a startup, you would probably create a software product.
    - You would then likely want to sell it to firms like Goldman.
- When you sell a product into financial services:
    - The discussion on security is one of the first things that you have to go through.
- Table stakes -> minimum entry requirement for a market or business arrangement
    1. Challenge of tenancy (Goldman, Chase, Pepsi, Coke can be tenants)
        - You want to isolate one tenant’s data from another tenant’s data using the most robust means that you can.
            - Data should be on a separate account (e.g. on different AWS accounts)
        - You will be tempted by the idea of giving the tenant the ability to run your app themselves. Don’t do that.
        - It will be very hard to maintain it and update it.
    2. Data Encryption
        - Client data obviously needs to be encrypted.
        - One firm that’s gotten this right is Snowflake.
            - They give the company the ability to hold a key.
            - They also hold their own key.
            - They then XOR the two keys together to create a new key, and use that to encrypt all the data.
            - If the company wants to revoke the data, they can revoke their key
                - Then, Snowflake will not be able to decrypt and access the data, even though it’s stored on their servers.
    3. Single Sign-On
        - Don’t build your own login service.
            - Trust the company’s identity provider, since they likely have specific identities for each of their employees already.
    4. Telemetry
        - Make available to the company any telemetry of usage of the service.
        - The data needs to be pretty near real-time, so the company can heavily monitor it for abuse, etc
- Also, have a prepared risk statement about security.
    - When you try to sell it, the firm will ask you: “What are the security concerns with your product?”
    - A few concerns with security at Goldman are:
        - Self-inflicted errors -> the stacks are very complicated, and if a couple engineers make mistakes, it could leave errors in the open to be exploited.
        - Clients that call into Goldman systems -> worried about organizations losing control of their secret key and infrastructure, leading to unauthorized API requests to transfer money.
        - You’ll probably have a UI or an API. That means human users will need permissions to access that thing -> You need to give Goldman a separate API to configure these permissions.
            - They need the ability to call into an entitlement system and see all the users and their permissions.
            - They want to `diff` this with the permissions that they expect -> protects against malicious insiders that have access to the permissions.
- Goldman wants to know that the company is mature enough to be good custodians of the data.
    - They want to see that the company has production access control, etc.

**Penetration testing**

- When engineers build products, they can become blind to security issues.
    - Pentesting is almost like a vaccine against blind spots from a security POV.
- Bring in someone from outside the organization, and ask them to break in using any means necessary.
    - These tests should be done with frequency to ensure that all products are safe.

**City**

- A big commercial bank that holds money for large organizations.
    - Holds money for hedge funs and for Revlon, etc.
- There was a hedge fund suing Revlon, and Revlon had money in an escrow account.
    - One of the people from Revlon called City.
    - City thought they were instructed to make a transfer.
    - City took money from the escrow account, and sent it to the hedge fund.
    - Revlon lost about $900 million because of a banking error.
    - They could not get money back because it was a wire transfer -> judge said there are no “givebacks” in the financial world.

**Product Access**

- Sometimes, you may need to log into a container to directly access the production data and system in order to make changes.
- Companies have whole teams in charge of Temporary Elevated Access into the production environment.
    - These teams create kits for this -> fully monitors every single action, and these actions have to be reviewed.

**Microsoft Security Incident**

- At Microsoft, in the early days of Azure Active Directory.
- To validate access with OAuth 2, there is a signature parameter with well-known fields relating to symmetric keys on it.
    - In the early days of OAuth 2, there was an option in that parameter called None -> this means there is no signature.
- Attackers could put None into this parameter and get access into any tenant’s data.
- Remote Unauthenticated Elevation of Privilege -> no credentials of who you are, but you can step up your privileges and access information.

**Pivotal Security Incident**

- Company shipped a huge stack of software with a lot of things in it.
- One of the services in the shipped software was called NATs
    - The username and password was not changed -> it was still user admin and password admin.
- Attackers could get into the backend if they knew this.

**Underserved Security Areas**

- We still don’t have our supply chain security under control.
    - E.g. Solarwinds, `xz` backdoor
- How we effectively monitor users and APIs across our entire third-party ecosystem.
    - E.g. Okta lost control of a Salesforce tenant -> someone leaked a key of a Salesforce data, and client data was leaked.
        - They then brought in Mandiant -> they realized that they didn’t actually know how to fully look through the Salesforce logs, and realized later that they all of the client data was leaked.

**Insider Threats**

- Think about collusion as being a good bar to cross
    - It’s hard to bring about collusion, so they worry about that less.
- Internal systems are designed so that collusion must happen in order for bad things to occur.
    - E.g. insiders have to work with their managers or someone else in order to do bad things to the system.