
## About
* Was leading integrity at Meta, on the Facebook side specifically
* Been in industry for over 20 years.
  * Spent the first 10 years working on cybersecurity products.
    * Worked at McAfee and FireEye
  * Spent 6 years at Amazon working on search.
  * Then spent 5 years at Meta, building out the effort around Integrity.

* What’s important to her?
  * Real-world problems that matter deeply to people
  * Require to think at scale
  * Have highly ambiguous solution spaces, e.g. operating in the gray zone

## Integrity (aka Trust & Safety)
* Bad behaviors create liability for the website hosting it, and  make the rest of the user base feel unsafe and less inclined to return to the site.
  * Safety is paramount for good user experiences
* Discipline where companies develop and enforce policies that define acceptable behavior and content online.
  * Integrity exists as a product group at every major internet company.

### Dimensions
* There are many types of harm:
  * Unsafe & Illegal content
    * E.g. bullying, abuse, nudity, hate speech
  * Criminal behavior
    * E.g. inciting violence and crime, selling restricted goods, fraud
  * Platform authenticity
    * E.g. spam, misinformation, fake identities
  * Distribution manipulation
    * E.g. engagement bait, clickbait
  * Intellectual property
    * E.g. copyright and trademark infringement

### Integrity at Meta
* The principles for integrity at Meta are:
  * Remove
    * Remove all content that violate the Community Standards
  * Reduce
    * Reduce negative user experiences
  * Inform
    * Empower users to make informed decisions when using product

### Real World Integrity: Nudity
* People bring their cultural background to their online lives.
  * Some people are more sensitive to adult nudity than others.
* To address this problem, Meta introduced the *show more/show less feature*
  * E.g. it asks the user “do you want to see more or less of this type of content”
  * This gives users the agency to self-select what they want to see on the page.

## Future of Integrity
* Three main trends in integrity:
  * Product development with Integrity in mind
    * Market expects safety when they use products, so products are developed with integrity from the start.
  * Transparency and Legitimacy
    * As people become more familiar with integrity, they want more transparency about what a company is doing.
    * People want more control over their user experiences on the platforms.

