---
Week: Week 1
---
# Essay

- Conflict Essay
- Due Tuesday, April 9th, 10:30 AM
- Write a short description of a recent, significant conflict you had with someone else (recent is not critical)
- Explain causes and content of the conflict
- Give your perspective; feel free to go off on the other person.
- Keep it short: 2-3 pages, double-spaced.

# Cognitive Dissonance Theory

- Leon Festinger — the author of this theory — made in 1957.
    - Social psychologist, studied psych under Kurt Lewin at University of Iowa.
    - Focused on scientific social psychology — kinda how we do it today
        - Commitment to three things: general theory, test theories in controlled environments, collecting data in the world.

## Claims

1. Strong tendency towards cognitive consistency
2. Holding two or more incompatible, or logically inconsistent, thoughts about ourselves, others, or the world produces **cognitive dissonance**.
3. The state of dissonance is uncomfortable — want to get out.
4. Discomfort resolved by rejecting or changing one or more of the inconsistent cognitions, or by adding additional cognitions
5. Dissonance reduced outside of awareness.

## Dissonance Reduction

- When people find their cognitions/thoughts are inconsistent, they try to resolve the dissonance (ie. create consistency).
- How do we resolve the dissonance between two thoughts, A and B?
    1. **Disregard** → Stop believing one
    2. **Change** → Change your belief in A or B (to not A, or not B)
    3. **Distort** → Distort one to fall in line with the other
    4. **Add** → Add an additional cognition that resolves conflict
- We choose whichever of “_disregard, change, distort, or add_” is easiest to do.
    - **“Path of least resistance”**
- We can also choose multiple strategies at the same time to reduce dissonance.

## Example

- Your friend says something offensive, which causes dissonance.
    1. Disregard: You can disregard the comment, or disregard your friendship.
    2. Change: You can adopt the offensive belief, or think less of your friend.
    3. Distort: You can pretend your friend meant something else
    4. Add: Your friend was having a bad day, or they grew up in an environment where this is normal
- You think you’re good at basketball, but you get beat in 1-on-1
    1. Disregard: You can disregard/forget the incident
    2. Change: You can revise your view of your abilities
    3. Distort: Focus on a larger set of games, you won the last 9 of 12 games.
    4. Add: You can say you had a bad day, or you can play again (best 2 out of 3)
- You think you’re healthy, but your doctor says you’re unhealthy
    1. Disregard: You can disregard your doctor’s assessment
    2. Change: You can revise your view of your health
    3. Distort: You can reinterpret your doctor’s words
    4. Add: You can adopt new practices that make you feel healthier

# “When Prophecy Fails” (1956)

- A book written by Festinger → describes cognitive dissonance.
- Festinger and colleagues heard about Chicago “doomsday cult” and joined it to research.
- Cult was led by Mrs. Keech — communicated with “the Guardians,” writing their messages
    - Guardians warned of a great flood **on a specific day,** but promised to save believers
- They had two clocks. One going ahead of the other.

## Dissonance

- On doomsday, once the first clock hit midnight, believers waited but nothing happened.
    - First moment of great dissonance.
        - Disregard → The members ignore the first clock and focuses on the other clock.
- After the second clock hit midnight, nothing also happened.
    - Another moment of dissonance.
        - Some people simply leave. They were already skeptical of it.
        - Add → Mrs. Keech writes an explanation to rationalize it, says that doomsday did not happen because the believers were so devout.

# “The Effect of Severity of Initiation on Liking for a Group” (1959)

- Study by Aronson and Mills.
- Findings: People seem to really like groups with severe initiation rituals.
    - Very committed to groups like cults, frats, unions, etc.

## Hypothesis

- Self-selection: The only people who would endure these severe initiation rituals are those that really love and are committed to the group.
- Group selection: The group only picks committed people who they think would be able to handle the initiation ritual.
- Dissonance reduction:
    - Once they are in the group, they can’t really understand why they went through the severe initiation ritual.
    - As a result, they reduce their dissonance by distorting their view of the group → the only reason they did this ritual was because they must’ve loved the group.

## Study

- They studied three groups of women, under three conditions.
- Women either asked to:
    1. Severe ritual → Read aloud explicit sexual words and passages prior to joining the group.
        1. Considered severe because women at the time were expected to be very modest.
    2. Mild ritual → Read mild words/passages
    3. No ritual → Nothing
- The women were then asked to listen to boring discussions about sexual behavior of animals.
- Results:
    - Severe initiated women rated the discussion and the group members higher than women who were mildly initiated or not initiated.

# “Cognitive consequences of forced compliance” (1959)

- Study by Festinger and Carlsmith → studies the “insufficient justification” effect
- Task: participants were asked to do a very boring task → insert pegs into a board, then doing a quarter turn.
    - As expected, participants rated this task as bad and boring.
- Participants were then asked to persuade another participant that the task was actually interesting.
    - They were either paid $1 to convince, or $20 to convince the other.
- **Dependent variable: participants rated the task again.**
- Result: Participants who were paid $1 rated the task higher.

## Explanation

- Focus on the dissonance.
- Those who were paid $20 to lie felt little dissonance
    - “The task was boring and I lied, but I did it for the $20”
    - “The task was so bad that it required $20 to lie for it”
- Those who were paid $1 to lie felt a lot of dissonance
    - “The task was boring and I lied about it for just $1. Why? Well, maybe it wasn’t that bad of a lie. Yea, the task wasn’t all bad.”

# Spreading of Alternatives

- After a decision, we tend to:
    - Increase our liking for the option we chose, and
    - Decrease liking for the options we rejected

## Is dissonance reduction good?

- Streamlining cognition is efficient → takes weird things and makes sense of them.
    - E.g. not having any buyer’s remorse, choosing an option and continuing forwards without looking back.
- But tolerance for complexity and ambiguity is also good
    - The world is complex.
    - Those with high “tolerance for ambiguity” do better in college, are rated better supervisors, are less neurotic, and are more creative.
        - Though this depends on the culture.
- Ambiguity of dissonance is not necessarily a bad thing.

# Cognitive Dissonance and Motivated Reasoning

- Motivated reasoning is often a key element in cognitive dissonance processes.
    - E.g. when you choose to do a severe initiation for a group?
        - The most likely justification would be that you are obedient willing to do weird stuff if a higher authority tells you in order to join some group.
            - However, most people don’t want to admit this because it makes the person feel bad about themselves.
        - As a result, the people choose the next best thing, which is that they must really like the group.

# Using cognitive dissonance

- Cognitive dissonance research might be practical and helpful → brings us to greater social psychological discovery
- We think that thought precedes behavior, but it may be just as true that behavior precedes thought (Lovaglia)
- If you behave some way, your attitudes often fall in line.
    - Consider “spreading of alternatives” effect, and “insufficient justification” effect
    - This is the tool behind cognitive behavioral therapy → try to set them up for healthy habits to change their behavior, and in time the attitudes will follow.
        - Don’t try to make them think like the person they want to be, have them act like the person they want to be.
    - “Bring the body, and the mind will follow”