---
Week: Week 2
---
# How do people think?

- The Cartesian Model of Rational Thought
    - People are cold, logical, deliberate, conscious, defensible, reasonable, evidence-based
    - Most associated with Rene Descartes → famous for saying “I think therefore I am”
    - This is not how ppl think (according to soc psych) → cognitive biases are exceptions to rationality
- Two areas so far:
    - Self-serving biases / motivated reasoning
    - Cognitive consistency → we are trying to make simple theories about the world

# What is social cognition?

- The study of the ways in which we process, store, and remember info about ppl
    - Focus on exceptions on how we behave towards other people

# Attributions bias (origins)

- Attributions → inferred causes of another’s behavior
- Fritz Heider → soc psych who studied perceptions of moving objects
    - Heider & Simmel simulation → inanimate shapes are moving
        - However, humans often interpret it as a story (romance, family, etc.)

> [!important]  
> Heider’s Naive PsychologyHumans, as lay psychologists, try to explain the causes of other’s behavior.  

- Two main types of attributions
    - Dispositional → attributing another’s behavior to the actor’s internal states
    - Situational → attributing another’s behavior to the actor’s environment
- People tend to link behaviors and events to stable factors.
    - They tend to prefer dispositional over situational attributions
    - Allows for simple, efficient explanations that facilitate predictions
    - People are “cognitive misers” → try to do as much prediction as possible with as little cognition as possible.
    - Parsimonious explanation → people try to get the simplest explanation

# Attributions research

## Jones and Harris (1967)

- Participants on college campuses were given an (anti- / pro-) Fidel Castro essay.
    - In college, Castro was quite a polarizing topic.
- Tell the participants that the writer of the essay either chose their side, or was randomly assigned.
- Asked to identify the writer’s attitude.
    - In the deterministic side, people obviously identified it correctly → since the authors choose, the attitude of the essay is the author’s
    - Even when the essay was randomly assigned, participants still made dispositional attributions → they still assumed that the attitude of the essay reflected the author’s

## Ross et al. (1977)

- Set up an experiment kind of like a quiz show.
- Participants were randomly assigned to be questioner, answerer, and observer.
- Questioner was asked to make somewhat difficult questions.
    - As a result, the answerer often got the question wrong.

> [!important]  
> Observers tended to rate the questioner as more knowledgeable than the answerer, even though the roles were randomized and the questioner was asked to make it hard.  

- The answerers also tended to rate the questioner as know knowledgeable.
- But the questioner did not, likely because they made the questions.

> [!important]  
> These results are an example of dispositional attribution.  

# Fundamental attribution error (F.A.E.)

- Tendency to overestimate dispositional factors and underestimate situational factors in attributions of other behaviors
    - I.e. we tend to attribute other’s behaviors more to their personalities and character (disposition), less to the context of behavior (situational).
        - E.g. ignoring the randomness of pro-/anti- essay assignment, or the quizmaster/answerer role
- This is also known as corresponding bias: tendency to assume a correspondence between other’s behavior and underlying attributes
    - E.g. “blaming the messenger” → blame them bc they seem responsible for the news
        - Getting angry at a secretary or customer service line → they associate the customer service with the company behaviors, even though the customer service can’t do much beyond the basics

# Actor-observer bias

- Tendency to see other’s behavior as a product of their internal states (disposition), but our own behavior as affected by the situation (situational)
    - People do not do the fundamental attribution error in self-attribution
    - E.g. If you do poorly on a test, you attribute it to situational factors like sleep. If another person does poorly, you may think they were not well prepared.

# Biases in Attribution

## Mechanism: Focalism

- When viewing others, we see them most focally → focus most on a single point
    - The tendency to place too much focus or emphasis on a single factor or piece of information when making judgments or predictions.
- When viewing our own behavior, we see our situation.
    - When viewing self, we have the full context for the behavior → might overattribute to situation factors.
    - You might even under attribute to dispositional factors, since you can’t see yourself.
- The focal information for an actor is their context. The focal information for an observer is the actor themselves.

## More details

- What about positive behaviors and outcomes?
    - Becoming wealthy, winning a competitive scholarship → how do we attribute this?
- Motivated reasoning/Self-serving biases.
    - People tend to take credit for good outcomes, and deny the credit for others when their actions lead to good outcomes.
    - Actor-Observer Bias flips for clearly positive outcomes.
        - When making self-attribution, we generally take into account the situation.
            - But we take credit (dispositional) when the outcome is good.
        - When attributing others, we generally take into account their disposition.
            - But we deny the credit (attribute to situational) when their outcome is good.

## More nuanced model

- If you see someone do something bad or neutral:
    - dispositional attribution → “They were a bad person”
- If you do something bad or neutral:
    - situational attribution → “I did it because of the environment”
- If you see someone do something good:
    - situational attribution → “They had so many advantages”
- If you do something good:
    - dispositional attribution → “I did that!”

# How to overcome F.A.E.?

- Effortful adjustment from initial anchor → put in cognitive effort to adjust your perspective
    - We have great access to our perspective in the world, but we have to work hard to view other people’s perspectives
- People “anchor” on a correspondent attribution (between person’s behavior and their underlying attributes)
    - To fix this, we take the anchor and effortfully adjust to account for context.
    - Without effort, it’s hard to take into account other’s context → you must try to take other’s perspectives.