
# Disease Risk
* Why are people willing to take the risks with recreational drugs as compared to medicine?

* Chance of ending up with a chronic, relapsing disease that is detrimental to your health:
	* Alcohol is ~8%, marijuana is ~9%, opioids is ~14%, and stimulants (cocaine) is 20%

* **Factors for taking the risk include**: sense euphoria from drugs, social pressure, environment, wanting to try, family background
	* In some cases, the drug was originally for medical purposes but they grew addicted.

# Discovery of brain's pleasure center
**James Olds and Peter Milner (1954, 1956)**
* They gave rats a lever and connected the level to an electrical node in the rat's brain.
	* Lever press stimulated the brain
* Rats liked it a lot, pressed lever up to 2000 times an hour

**Roy Pickens and Travis Thompson (1968)**
* Similar effects were found for drugs; rats liked drugs
* Also found that drugs were a more powerful learning vehicle than food (solved mazes better, etc)

## Important Brain Regions
**Binge and Intoxication**
* Nucleus Accumbens: reward
* Ventral Tegmental Area: dopamine
* Dorsal Striatum: stimulus-response-action

**Withdrawal and negative affect**
* Amygdala: emotions (especially negative)

**Preoccupation and anticipation**
* Hippocampus: memory
* Prefrontal Cortex: self control


## Neurotransmitters
* Dopamine: reward, salience, motor control
	* Dopamine rush (sent by the VTA)

* Serotonin: mood, appetite, sleep
	* Depression, aggressiveness, impulse control

* Glutamate: major excitatory signal, memory
	* Context learning and behavior

* GABA: major inhibitory signal
	* Anti-anxiety, sleep

### Neurotransmitter Actions
1. Synthesis (materials and enzymes)
	* create the nt
2. Storage (usually in vesicles)
	* store the nt
3. Release into the synapse
	* release the nt into synapse (between neurons)
4. Receptor binding (postsynapse or autoreceptor)
	* receiver neuron receives the nt from sender neuron
5. Deactivation (destruction, reuptake)


## Neuroplasticity
Brain's ability to adapt to a changing environment. Fundamental for learning and memory.
* E.g. When taking drugs, brain adapts to the drugs that they're taking.
* E.g. brain can improve synaptic connectivity -> if two neurons communicate a lot together, the brain can increase the calcium amount, the # of vesicles, and the # of receptors


# Addiction
Is addiction a disease of plasticity?
* Addiction is fundamentally a memory trace (plasticity) that manifest itself in brain circuits resulting in motivation to resume drug-taking behavior when drug-related cues are encountered.


## Components of Addition
* The three components are:
	* Binge and intoxication
	* Withdrawal and negative affect
	* Preoccupation and anticipation

### 1. Binge and Intoxication
* Reward system activation
	* Dopamine rush
	* Nucleus accumbens activation
	* Other receptors
* A strong association can make a drug/activity more addictive


### 2. Withdrawal and negative affect
* Taking drugs can give you *too much* dopamine rush. Brain makes less natural neurotransmitters as a result
	* Less dopamine in your brain
	* Anti-reward system develops
		* Natural dopamine is not enough -> drugs are now required for homeostasis
	* You feel bad so must use more

### 3. Preoccupation and anticipation
* Low dopamine and glutamate in frontal cortex -> brain is put in survival mode where its difficult to make decisions, difficult to resist urges, hard to accept delayed gratification
	* Only focused on satisfying cravings
* Cravings circuitry -> there's a lot of drug-related cues; people might pavlov themselves into cravings

## Withdraw
* Addiction is not a disease just isolated to the brain
* Withdrawal can be deadly, especially when it comes to alcohol withdrawal
	* People may switch addictions (use another as comfort when quitting one)


# Environment

## Stress
* Stress can heighten someone's susceptibility to becoming addicted -> speed up the acquisition of addictions.
* Stress can also encourage the potential relapse of an addiction after quitting.
	* Prefrontal control is inhibited -> easier to relapse into addictions

* When you feel stressed, your brain releases cortisol into your body.
	* This is self-regulated; once cortisol is released, it "turns off the tap"

* For people with chronic stress, it stops the mechanisms of "turning off" the tap.
	* People continually have increased levels of cortisol.

* Opioids decreases cortisol levels -> people with chronic stress might use opioids to destress themselves.

* The deregulation of cortisol levels means that people with chronic stress have increased dopamines levels when taking drugs.

# Genetic
Does addiction have a genetic component?
* Based on twin studies, addiction is pretty genetic: alcohol is 50% to 70%, nicotine is 59%
However, it's overall difficult to pinpoint since...
* multiple involved genes
* physical characteristics of mental health
* difficult to quantify
* good amount of variability

## Epigenetics and substance use
* Epigenetics -- heritable changes in gene expression not related to the sequence.
* How does the environment influence your gene?

* Adolescent rats and cannabis exposure -> they gave parent rats cannabis and then had them gave birth
	* Offspring initially showed no proference for heroin
	* But then offspring were willing to work harder to get heroin
	* Offspring has more severe withdrawal symptoms

**Age of use**
* The earlier you start using a drug, the more likely you are to be addicted.
	* Adolescents have a strong drive for reward and less control since they are not fully developed -> almost like the addicted adult brain.


# Addiction disease model
* Preventative treatment
	* Prevention on at-risk individuals
	* Improve self-regulation or social skills
* Treatment
	* Medical (for withdrawal or maintenance therapy)
	* Psychological (reduce stress, emotion regulation)
	* Natural dopamine agonists (exercise, social contact)