* The forms of nicotine consumption are one of the leading preventable causes of death.
	* Smoking, vaping, chewing tobacco, etc.
# History
* Jean Nicot -> introduced tobacco to the de Medici court in 1561; brought from new world.
* King James wrote "A Counterblaste to Tobacco" around 50 years later to emphasize the concerns surrounding tobacco.
	* He said it was harmful to nose, brain, lungs, etc.
## Tobacco
* Grows from a plant; its the leaves of the *Nicotiana tobacum*
* The leaves are cured, and usually consumed via smoking or chewing etc.
* Indigenous to North America
* It was smoked by natives for medicinal and ceremonial purposes.
## Nicotine
* An alkaloid found naturally in tobacco plants, tomatoes, potatoes, eggplants, and green peppers.

# Biology
* Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor -> brain has these receptors; built for ACh but nicotine fits into the binding site.
	* Once bound, channel opens and molecules flood in; it can be oversaturated and get used to it.

* The circuits involved in nicotine addiction include: prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, and VTA.
	* GABA, glutamine, and dopamine circuits

* Nicotine increases glutamate (excitatory), decreases GABA (inhibitory) -- leads to disinhibition
	* Leads to release of dopaminergic molecules

## Rat Experiment
* Researchers found that footshocks raised the dopamine in rats; even though the shock is painful, it still increases dopamine.
	* Ans: when rats get a footshock, they learn to not do it again. This learning increases their dopamine.
* Furthermore, **nicotine spiked dopamine nearly as much as cocaine.**

## Tobacco Consumption
* Primary forms of consumption include:
	* Cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco, E-cigs, other nicotine products like patches, etc...
* James Albert Bonsack's Machine introduced an economy of scale for cigarettes --> machine that can automate the rolling of cigs.
	* Led to higher supply of cigs, lowered price for cigs; allowed for commercialization of tobacco.

* Ernst Wynder
	* Medical student that researched "Tobacco Smoking as a Possible Etiologic Factor in Bronchogenic Carcinoma"

* Following research on unhealthiness of cigarettes, manufacturers made changes to market them as "healthy".
	* In some cases, they introduced chemicals like asbestos that introduced further issues.

**Chronic Effects of Tobacco** 
* Heart disease: 2-4x increased risk
* Stroke: 2-4x increased risk
* Lung cancer: 13-23x increased risk
* Connections: many cancers, lung disease, reproductive issues, osteoporosis
* Smoking is second in terms of modifiable risk factors associated with deaths.

# Cigarette Smoking Rates
* The rates of cig smoking have fallen significantly for both youths and adults.
	* Adults peaked in the 1960s at 42.4% -- youth peaked ~1996 at 36.4%.
* Now, adults are at 13.7% and youth is at 8.8%.
* There are more people quitting and fewer current smokers.
	* The only group that hasn't quit as much as others are people with existing mental illnesses/addictions.

* The leading cause of cancer deaths in women in the US is still lung cancer.

## Race and Education on Smoking
* There are large differences in smoking rates when people are organized by race/ethnicity and education.
* Lower education -> higher smoking rates


## Vaping and E-cigs
* major concern is about youth addiction and whether vaping will lead to smoking.
* Juul -> made it easier for youth to access vaping; was banned in the US in 2022

* FDA: banned flavors in pods for vaping
	* Unintended consequences: companies switched to disposables which had flavors. 
	* 26% of high school vapers now use disposables
* FDA: cleared first menthol ENDS (electronic nicotine delivery systems)
	* Menthol makes cigarettes more easily smoked, and people can more easily get addicted and sick from them.

* The harm reduction effect of vaping is believed to be larger compared to the negative effects of it (since it promotes quitting cigs)
	* As such, public health organizations are more willing to promote vapes.

* Smoking is at historic lows, including youth use of tobacco products.


# Quitting Smoking
* Behavior change: stop smoking
	* Most quit without any help or treatment
* However, there's a high resurgence rate with quitting cold turkey -> only about 8% remain quit after a year.
* Overall, 50% of people who has smoked quit.

* There are also alternatives that can help with quitting -> these still provide nicotine but not the harms of smoking
	* E.g. patches, gums, etc...
* There are also drugs to inhibit nicotine to reduce the addiction:
	* E.g. varenicline, bupropion, etc.