
# Background
* Went to Harvard for undergrad, did MD-PhD at Stanford, postdoc at UCSF
* Focuses on foundational preclinical neuroscience research -> studies rat and mouse brains.
* Became a prof at UCSF for 10 years, then came to Stanford in 1999

## Research
* Explored how synapses works -> synapse is the connection between nerve cells
* Pioneer for plasticity of synapses -> how do they change in response to experience
* Got into studying drugs of abuse
	* Give mice powerful experience and see whether that causes changes in synaptic communication at key brain structures involved in responding to those powerful experience.
	* Detect synaptic changes related to addiction.
* Contribute to understanding the pathophysiology of substance abuse disorders.

# Addiction/Abuse
* Rob has a large craving for sugar laden high fat foods like donuts or Doritos.
	* He has a high potential for abuse of these foods.
	* But he isn't addicted to them -- he can control himself, he won't hurt others or go out of his way to get access to them.
* People become addicted to drugs once **they can no longer control themselves** in order to get access to the drug.
* Are video games, pornography, gambling, and social media addictive?
	* Look at your behavior --> craving for those experiences, compulsion to repeat them

## Q&A
* Q: You study mice and rats for addictions. How does the findings there relate to humans?
	* Humans are just big mice and rats. Our nervous system and brains evolved over millennia such that a lot of the components of our central nervous system overlap with the cells, cell types, neurotransmitters, and circuits that a mouse has.
		* Mammalian animals like mice will self-administer substances like cocaine, just like humans will.
		* These animals also exhibit behavior showing that they prefer the substance over other things like sex, relationships, etc.
	* **We know the trigger of substance use abuse --> the drug is the trigger**
	* Humans have a very high relapse rate.
		* We can replicate this behavior in mice -- we can induce stress in mice (which is a significant factor for relapse in humans) to study how stress affects relapse rates.

* It's very difficult to predict whether a person will be addicted or not, as well as whether a person will get better following treatment, etc.

## Genetic and Life Experiences to Addiction
* Logically, people who grow up in households with addiction might be averse to the drug use because they've directly seen the negative consequences of substance abuse.
	* E.g. Trump does not drink because his brother was addicted to alcohol and died from it.
* However, theres a ton of factors that come into this. People might be more drawn to drugs because they are exposed to it via family, or they might be very averse to it.

## Psychedelics
* Are there drugs here that promote human interaction and empathy?
	* One example of a drug that does this is ectasy/molly/mdma

* This drug causes massive releases of serotonin in the accumbens and other brain structures.
	* When people take it, people are more empathetic --> more sensitive to the emotions with whom they are interacting.

* They studied mice to study the "social transfer of pain, etc"
	* If you take **a mouse and put it in pain**, then take **another mouse and let it hang out** with the mouse in pain. The **other mouse will manifest behaviors that indicate pain**, mimicking the mouse that is in pain.
		* Kinda like how parents feel horrible when their kids are sick, even though they are probably still fully healthy.
	* Humans are social animals --> AA meetings are beneficial because they can feel the pain of others and empathize with them.
