
# Alcohol Policy Timeline
* 1851 -- first Prohibition law passed in Maine (driven by religion)
* 1869 -- Prohibition party is founded
	* Party was very pro-womens suffrage bc women would likely vote for prohibition
* 1893 -- Anti-Saloon league is formed
* 1917 -- senate passed volstead act, first step in passing 18th amendment
* 1919 -- 18th amendment passed, alcohol consumption illegal
* 1920 -- volstead act sets up prohibition bureau to stop illegal alc
* 1920s - gangsters like al capone make money via illegal alc
	* During prohibition, there was a large rise in violence, illegal activities and drinking
* 1933 -- 21st amendment passed, alc becomes legal
* 1934 -- some states made legal drinking age 21
* 1971 -- 26th amendment set, voting age set to 18
* 1970s -- some states made legal drinking age 18
	* rise in DUIs and alc-related car accidents
* 1984 -- national minimum drinking age of 21

# Drinking and covid
* During COVID, drug and alcohol use increased significantly.
	* As soon as lockdown happened, drinking dropped.
	* As the lockdown continued, there was a steady incline of drinking (measured via positive breathalyzer tests)
* There was also a steep decline in teen mental health.
* It's unclear if alcohol use disorders has increased as a result of COVID.

# BAC
* Many factors influence BAC
	* Weight of the person -- light means higher BAC
	* Food in stomach -- less means higher BAC
	* Concentration of the drink -- higher BAC with higher concentrations
	* Time between drinks -- shorter time is higher BAC
	* Genetics
	* Gender -- females have higher BAC

# Binge Drinking
* Drinking to a BAC of 0.08g/d or above, not necessarily associated with AUD
	* For men this is ~5 drinks in 2 hours, women is ~4 drinks
* More common in men
* Mostly in young adults but not uncommon in 35+
* More common in households of $75,000 or higher, but lower income associated with more drinks per binge

# Race
* Alcohol drinking differes by race as well.
* Asians have the lowest alcohol use disorders.
* American indians have pretty high alcohol use disorders rates.

# Alcohol Circuitry
* Alcohol can get everyone, binding to a ton of receptors.
* Increases GABA
	* GABA is inhibitory -- caused influx of chloride which inhibits neurons themselves
	* Causes an inhibitory cascade
* Decreases glutamate
	* Reduce excitatory signaling -- inhibition of frontal cortex and areas of the brain important for keeping u alive
* Increase dopamine, adrenaline rush
	* Addictive liability

# Hangover
* You drink and don't feel good the next day.
* Different from withdrawal -- hangover does not make you want to drink more.

* Alcohol + Alcohol Dehydrogenase produces Acetaldehyde (toxin that causes headache)
	* You metabolize Acetaldehyde slowly, builds up faster than you can build alcohol.
* Acetaldehyde produces Acetaldehyde Dehydrogenates (enzyme) and Glutathione (limited).
	* We have limited supply of Glutathione -- this is the rate limiting step in the digestion of alcohol.
	* Acetaldehyde Dehydrogenates and Glutathione combine to turn into acetate, then you pee it out.

* Nausea and vomiting -- caused by alcohol irritating stomach
* Glutamate rebound: alcohol makes more glutamine to make upfor the inhibition --> leads to poor sleep, anxiety, shaky

# Tolerance and Withdrawal
* Brain adaptations under chronic use of alcohol
	* Brain doesn't like having low glutamate, so it makes more glutamate receptors
	* Brain doesn't like GABA inhibition, so it makes GABA less sensitive (imbalanced)

* Adaptations lead to withdrawal
	* Might lead to seizures, depression, anxiety, etc.
	* People need to use alcohol in order to get their GABA and glutamate levels to normal.

# Long term effects on brain
* Ventricles enlarge, reduction of white matter, destroy your brain.
* Can lead to dementia called Korsakoff's Syndrome due to vitamin B deficiency
	* Alcohol makes it so that you can't process vitamin B
* Korsakoff's Syndrome **is not reversible** -- pretty rare because people get medical care before this happens.

# Alcohol
* It's rewarding
* Cause distinct neuroadaptation that leads to tolerance and withdrawal
* Withdrawal can lead to continued use
	* Can be life threatening in alcohol addiction
* Long term treatments decrease craving, symptoms of withdrawal
* Medications in alcohol use disorder must be combined with psychosocial treatment
	* For example, going to AA or some other form of treatment