* There are a large amount of counterfeit opioids on the market
* Back in 1901, Heorin was a **brand name** ⟶ made by Bayer & Co.
	* Initially marketed as a treatment for coughs.
* In the US, opioids could be bought over the counter until the Food and Drug Act of 1906
	* First federal law to protect consumers from unsafe and unhealthy food and drugs

* The issue with having these drugs over the counter is that:
	1. Opioids are extremely addictive ⟶ letting it be easily accessible can promote addiction
	2. Without directions from prescriptions, people were much more likely to overdose.

* Drugs are neither good or bad. They exist in our country and we need to figure out how to manage it.
	* Opioids are one of the most effective treatments for pain.
	* We need to figure out how to give care while minimizing addiction and overdose.
		* E.g. we can't just ban fentanyl because we need it for surgeries, etc.

> [!NOTE] Opioid prescriptions have started to decrease but opioid fatalities are still increasing.
>



# Racial Disparaties
* In 2015, death rates for blacks were around 17.3 per 100k people. For whites were around 26.2 per 100k people.
* In 2020, death rates for blacks were around 54.1 per 100k people. For whites were around 44.2 per 100k people.

* The lower amount of black to white deaths is because whites had better access to healthcare.
	* White people had more access to opioid prescriptions, etc.
	* This still stands today.

* Almost all the increase in rates is **attributed to fentanyl** instead of prescription opioids.

# Opioid Use Disorder
* Serious medical condition
* Issues with tolerance and withdrawal
	* Digestive symptoms
	* Cravings
	* Sleep disturbances/drowsiness
	* Isolation
	* Mood disturbances

## Treatment
* No evidence for long term benefit from short term medically supervised withdrawal
* Agonist therapy is standard of care, some benefit for antagonist treatment
	* Mortality reduction of 50%
	* Opioid agonist therapy (OAT) is an effective treatment for addiction to opioid drugs such as heroin, oxycodone, hydromorphone (Dilaudid), fentanyl and Percocet.
	* The therapy involves taking the opioid agonists methadone (Methadose) or buprenorphine (Suboxone).
		* These medications work to prevent withdrawal and reduce cravings for opioid drugs.
		* People who are addicted to opioid drugs can take OAT to help stabilize their lives and to reduce the harms related to their drug use.

## Medications
* There are a few main drugs for medications for opiod use disorder (MOUD)
* MOUD includes 3 modalities:
	* Methadone
	* Buprenorphine
	* Naltrexone
* Overdose reversal
	* Naloxene — narcan

## Disadvantes of Treatment
* Methadone can only be given at certain locations — hard to access.
